## Exercises

In this section, you will find the R code that we will use during the course. We will explain the code during practicals.

## Source of data

We will work with RNA sequencing data generated by [Ercolano et al 2020](https://jlb.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/JLB.5MA0120-209R).
This study was a descriptive study of immune cells that are circulating in the blood of humans in healthy conditions. Different types of immune cells
circulate in human blood. The goal of this study was to determine differences in transcriptomes between 2 cell types, Natural Killer (NK) cells and
CD4+ T helper (Th) cells. These 2 types of cells have different functions: NK cells provide a rapid response in the innate immune response at the beginning of an infection such as
by a virus, and are able to kill virus-infected cells by secreting cytotoxic molecules; Th cells have an important role in the adaptive immune response by aiding antigen-presenting cells by secreting different panels of cytokines depending on the type of pathogen infecting the host. 

The RNA sequencing data that we provide includes the results of a differential gene expression analysis comparing NK cells to Th cells. The differential
gene expression analysis was performed using limma (see Links page). 

Before starting the exercises, set the working environment to where you have downloaded the files for the exercises 
and load the necessary packages. Also, set the seed so that results are replicable.

```r
# !! Change the path within quotes to where you have saved the data for the exercises:
setwd("/export/scratch/twyss/SIB_training/EA_062021/")

library(clusterProfiler)
library(enrichplot)
library(pathview)
library(org.Hs.eg.db)

# set seed
set.seed(1234)

```

Import the data into your R session and explore its structure: what are the different columns corresponding to?
How can you search for a particular gene within this table?

```r
# Import DE table:
NK_vs_Th<-read.csv("NK_vs_Th_diff_gene_exercise_1.csv",
                   header = T)
                   
# Look at table structure:
head(NK_vs_Th)

# Search for CPS1 in symbol column:
NK_vs_Th[which(NK_vs_Th$symbol=="CPS1"),]
``` 

